["If I Had A Heart" playing]
♪ More, give me more
Give me more ♪
♪ If I had a heart
I could love you ♪
♪ If I had a voice
I would sing ♪
♪ After the night
When I wake up ♪
♪ I'll see
What tomorrow brings ♪
[vocalizing]
♪ If I had a voice
I would sing ♪
[indistinct chatter]
[indistinct shouting]
Floki.
[woman] This way.
[Ubbe] Floki.
Ketill Flatnose!
By all the gods,
I never thought
I would see you again.
[Ketill] And yet,
here I am, Ubbe!
Very far from invisible!
I thought you were Floki.
Do I look like Floki?
You are in Floki's boat.
You went with Floki
to found a new settlement.
Tell me, was it a success?
[sighs]
In the early days, Ubbe,
it was a great struggle
for all of us.
We lost many good people
to disease and starvation.
Sometimes I wondered
if the gods were against us,
and if our tiny colony
in Iceland
could ever succeed.
Iceland?
That's what we call it,
because, in winter,
the fjords
fill with ice floes.
But, otherwise,
the weather is fine.
And, since then,
we have made progress.
We have harvested
our first crops.
Other settlers
have come to join us,
and I feel optimistic
that we shall succeed,
like Floki wanted.
I am here to see Bjorn.
My brother is now the King.
Ah, so I have heard.
I will go and
pay my respects.
I would like to
talk about this further.
Would you meet me later
in the Great Hall?
[grunts in affirmation]
[cheering]
[cheering in the distance]
[Bjorn] I need
your advice, Ubbe.
You know what has
happened to King Harald.
Should I rescue him or not?
It's your decision.
But you spoke about
making Kattegat great
through trade, not conquest.
Why would
your first decision be
to go on a foreign
adventure?
But King Harald
saved my life.
He fought with us
to regain Kattegat.
What kind of king
would turn a blind eye
to such obligation?
It just makes me glad
I'm not King.
[scoffs]
What do you say, Hvitserk?
I don't say anything.
Well, you have to
have an opinion.
Why?
Because it would help me.
It would help all of us
if we knew where Ivar was.
Who cares about Harald,
or Olaf, or any of them?
Only Ivar matters.
Just to you, brother.
I don't know, Bjorn.
I don't know.
[shouting and cheering]
I see I must make up
my own mind.
[grunting]
There he is!
What brings you
back to Kattegat,
Ketill Flatnose?
I am trying to
recruit new settlers.
I don't care who they are,
as long as they are
prepared to work hard.
[grunting]
And what of Floki?
How is he?
Why has he not returned?
I would have liked
to have seen him again.
The truth is, Ubbe,
Floki seemed to grow tired
being the leader
of a settlement
that was not working.
He was disappointed,
grew despondent.
Then one day,
without explanation,
he just left us
and walked away.
And you haven't
seen him since?
No.
We searched the island
for him.
We spent a long time
looking for him.
We found no sign of him.
[grunting]
There is one more thing.
I once heard a story
about a wanderer
who sailed west,
probably to the west
of your Iceland.
It is said that he sighted
a beautiful, uninhabited land,
but was driven past it
by a storm
and could not find it.
Have you heard
this story before?
I have heard this story
many times,
and I know the wanderer
that you speak of.
He lives in Iceland.
His name is Othere.
I need to find that land!
I am fitting out two boats
to search for it.
Then you must come
to Iceland with me
and meet Othere.
And to look for Floki!
[screaming and grunting]
[thudding]
[cheering]
[shouting exultantly]
[instrumental music playing]
What do you think of these
Eastern puppets?
Hmm. I like them.
I wish someone could
hold me up like that.
I thought the gods did that.
[chuckles]
[puppet master
speaking Russian]
Through the shadows
and the light,
he can see she is there,
but not alone.
It is his wife.
Beautiful,
faithless.
Rage, sorrow and loss
fills his heart.
The rumors
and the whispers were true.
He kills her lover.
Then,
in his anguish,
he strikes her.
Again.
And again.
She does not cry out.
She falls to the ground.
Lifeless,
unmoving.
Yet, it is not his wife,
but the King who is wounded.
Forever suspicious.
His trust broken.
His soul cheated.
His cup full of bitterness.
Betrayed.
Alone.
Did he deserve this-
this great,
loving King?
[instrumental music
stops playing]
[Oleg] I have to go
to Novgorod.
Novgorod?
The old capital of Rus.
My brother lives there.
I need to talk to him.
I told you,
I have family business.
Then I can concentrate
on building a fleet
and raising an army.
You will meet
my ward, Prince Igor.
The son of my dead
brother-in-law, King Rorik.
Igor is the true heir
to the kingdom.
[footsteps approaching]
[Gunnhild] Ingrid.
Yes, Gunnhild?
I have seen you
looking at Bjorn.
You know, the way that women
sometimes look at men.
I don't know what you mean.
You are not a child, Ingrid.
If you feel
what I think you feel,
then I am sorry for you.
But I cannot stop you
feeling it.
Go on.
[horses whinnying]
[speaks Russian]
[horse whinnying]
Novgorod!
[scout exclaiming]
[sled driver exclaiming]
[birds chirping]
[indistinct chatter]
[courtier speaks Russian]
[speaking Russian]
Where is my brother?
[courtier speaking Russian]
His Highness will be here
very shortly, Prince Oleg.
He begs your forgiveness
for his late arrival.
Give me a drink.
So, I have been
curious to know.
Why are you called
the Prophet?
It came about like this.
I attacked Constantinople,
defeated its defenders,
and subdued it.
Afterwards, I was invited
to dine with its rulers
to make peace,
since I was not strong enough
to occupy the city
indefinitely.
But just before the feast,
I had a dream.
I dreamed that my wine
was poisoned.
So, I refused to drink it.
But two of my commanders,
ignoring my warning, did drink,
and died in
the greatest agony
soon afterwards.
From that moment,
I was called...
The Prophet.
[indistinct chatter]
Askold!
Brother.
[speaking Russian]
Your Highness.
Permit me to introduce
Ivar the Boneless.
He's a Viking.
[Oleg speaking Russian]
Perhaps we should
speak in Norse.
This is Prince Igor.
Ah. Prince.
I hear you are
the famous
Ivar the Boneless.
Scourge of all Christians!
Leader of the great army
that ravaged England
and killed two Christian Kings.
[Ivar] That is true.
But what is fame,
Prince Askold?
A chimera?
An illusion perhaps?
[Askold chuckles]
[Askold] Is it true,
as I have been told,
that you plan to invade
Scandinavia?
[Oleg] Of course.
I have been considering it
for some time.
I took King Ivar's arrival
as a sign that I was meant
to proceed with my plans.
After all, we will
only take back
what is rightly ours.
Don't you agree, brother?
I will contribute
whatever I can
to your army.
I hope you recognize that,
as your brother,
I stand ready and waiting
for your commands.
And that, in all things,
you can trust me.
Of course, my dear brother.
More wine!
To conquest!
Conquest!
[frenzied shouting]
[people exclaiming]
[swords clashing]
[speaking Russian]
Why aren't you playing?
Why aren't you playing? Play!
[flute music playing]
What's wrong with you?
Don't you want to dance?
[music playing throughout]
Dance!
[cheering]
Mother of God,
help me!
Help!
[Askold gasps]
I've been poisoned!
[music continues playing]
Oleg!
[flute music stops]
[panting]
Whoo!
It's been a long day!
We must rest.
Your Highness.
[birds chirping]
[horse whinnies]
[Oleg laughing]
[Bjorn] Should I rescue
King Harald or not?
[Seer] That is your affair,
Bjorn Ironside.
Don't you know your own mind?
I want to know
the consequences.
You can see.
You know the future.
[Seer] I know what I know.
And what you cannot
bear to know.
This is a big decision.
I have only been King
a short while.
If I make the wrong choice...
[Seer] You think
of yourself only.
The living are all the same.
From either your shadow
at morning sliding behind you,
or your shadow at evening
rising to meet you,
I will show you fear
in a handful of dust.
I'm sorry.
I should not have asked.
[Seer] I will say only this,
that whatever else you do,
whatever you decide,
do not betray
your own gods
in the process.
I don't understand.
Why would I betray
my own gods?
-[chickens clucking]
-Don't let them run off.
[man shouting]
[man] Need some more tiles
for the roof here.
[indistinct chatter]
[goats bleating]
[Hali] Look, Asa, it's Ubbe!
And look what he's brought!
[Ubbe]
There they are! Hello!
Did you see
the fat little piggy?
Go see him! Hmm?
[Lagertha]
How was your visit
to Kattegat?
Do they still remember me?
What do you think?
I saw Bjorn and Hvitserk.
Bjorn is good.
Hvitserk looked sick.
He is still haunted
by the thoughts of Ivar.
Sometimes
I think of Ivar, too.
I know that he is still
somehow part of all our fates
but, we just
have to accept it,
and get on with our lives.
I saw Ketill Flatnose.
-Ketill Flatnose?
-Mmm.
What was he doing?
Trying to recruit more people
for the settlement in Iceland.
That's what they're calling
their new land.
What of Floki?
Was Floki with him?
No.
He said that Floki
became disenchanted
with their new life
and that he just disappeared
without warning.
I wonder
what has become of him.
Floki can't be dead.
I won't believe it.
Ketill also told me
that the wanderer
who saw the uninhabited
land further to the west,
his name is Othere,
and he lives in Iceland.
I told him that we would
sail back with him,
so I can meet
with this Othere.
-That's good news!
-Hmm.
Yes.
Thank you
for your gifts, Ubbe.
Now we have to decide
which animal to sacrifice,
so the gods can bless
this new dwelling.
I will invite
the local villagers
to join us
and we will feast.
Hali! [clapping]
Bring the chickens!
[bell dinging]
Ivar. Get up.
We have to leave.
I was dreaming
that my wine was poisoned,
and that's the reason
why I didn't drink it.
Why did you have to
kill your brother?
Because this child
belongs to me.
Not to Askold,
not to anyone else.
His father made me
his guardian.
What did Askold do?
I heard reports.
Askold was
grooming the child.
He was trying to
steal him away from me.
And that I could not allow.
He's just a child.
No.
He's not just a child.
He is the only
legitimate heir.
To control him is
to possess the only keys
to the kingdom.
And I mean to keep
those keys safe
about me.
Mmm.
Igor, wake up.
[speaking Russian]
What is it?
-[in English] Wake up.
-[Igor speaking Russian]
What is it, you devil!
Don't play games with me.
It's time to go.
[horn tooting]
What is happening?
Seems like we have visitors.
[speaking Russian]
Prince!
Prince,
your brother Dir
is approaching.
Oleg, what is happening?
Hmm?
I forgot to tell you.
I have another brother.
It seems like
he wants to talk to us.
[horse whinnying distantly]
[horse whinnying]
[grunts]
You don't have to
be afraid.
[birds chirping]
[door closing]
[speaking Russian]
Where's the boy?
He is safe and well.
Who's the cripple?
You haven't heard?
This is King Ivar the Boneless,
the Viking.
The Viking?
Uh-huh.
[in English]
I think we should
speak in his language.
The fact is,
you murdered our brother
in cold blood.
And you had
no reason to do it.
Mmm. I believe
I had every reason.
Many reasons.
Enough reasons.
Oleg,
you see how things are?
You are in a bad situation.
An impossible situation.
I ought to arrest you
for murder.
No one would help you.
No matter how often
you wash your hands,
they still have our brother's
blood on them.
Of course, you can
still avoid catastrophe.
Hand over the boy,
and you and the cripple
can leave.
Otherwise, I might dispense
with the formalities
and deal with you
as you dealt with
our brother.
You of all people
should know better
than to try to threaten
and blackmail me.
I am the Prophet.
And I know, that unless
you give me and King Ivar
and Prince Igor
free passage back to Kiev,
then something
truly terrible will
happen to you.
Not in a few months. No.
Not even in a few weeks. No.
But in a matter of days.
[chuckles nervously]
Good try.
You have two hours
to hand over the boy
unharmed.
Otherwise, I will
proceed as I suggested...
Brother.
[scoffs]
Is it true?
What he said about you?
My brother has seen
enough of my prophecies
come true to make him
at least pause for thought.
[sighing]
[groans]
[retching]
[laughs]
[chuckles]
[strumming on lute]
[footsteps approaching]
Beautiful. Ivar?
-It's gonna be a long day.
-Yeah.
[woman] What do you have?
[indistinct chatter]
You are my wife's servant.
What is your name?
Ingrid.
In this world,
you have to be
so careful, Ingrid.
[indistinct background chatter]
I don't want to be careful.
[sighs]
[indistinct shouting]
[chickens clucking]
[indistinct shouting
continues]
Hali!
[Bjorn] Where are my children?
Hali! Asa! Come here!
Hello!
[Bjorn]
Oh, it is good to see you.
Come. Show me
what you have built!
It's over here!
Hali built most of it.
Did he?
[Hali] You're right.
Oh, it is so big!
[laughs]
[Lagertha] The King
stoops to visit
a lonely old farmer!
Ah, you don't look that lonely!
Oh!
-Ubbe.
-Bjorn.
Torvi.
Hello, Bjorn.
The children are always
a credit to you.
And Ubbe.
And, of course, Ubbe.
Brother.
[Lagertha] Come.
Come on.
Oh, I like this place.
You're a master builder, Hali.
-I know.
-[laughs]
Let's go inside.
[raven crowing]
[footsteps approaching]
You have had two hours.
What is your decision?
My decision?
I told you.
Hand over the boy,
or I kill you and the cripple.
Mmm.
Perhaps you have forgotten
what I said.
I said, unless you release
the three of us, unharmed,
then in day or so,
a terrible thing will
happen to you.
I don't believe you.
You don't really
have second sight.
I think maybe you should
believe him.
What has this
to do with you?
Nothing.
Everything.
You are bluffing.
But let me give you
the benefit of the doubt,
and ask you a question
that only a true prophet
could answer.
I recently got married.
In secret.
The identity of my wife
is only known
to a few trusted servants.
Not even Askold knew
about my nuptials
and the name of my wife.
But I assume
that you know.
Don't you, brother?
Yes.
I know your wife's name.
I know everything.
[growls]
[chuckling]
Believe me, Bjorn,
I respect your decision
to try and settle matters
with King Harald.
But you must remember,
Harald betrayed
me personally.
He kidnapped Astrid.
He lied to me.
I do not believe
that he is trustworthy.
I understand.
And I'm sure that
if I were you,
I would not go to
his aid.
I would let
King Olaf kill him,
and I would not be
troubled.
But I am not you.
I remember I was in a room
with Ivar, at his mercy,
and King Harald said,
"Stop, no, this is
not our way."
And for me, since
King Harald and I
have become allies,
this is not our way.
It is not my way
to abandon him.
[Lagertha] I remember
I refused to go raiding
with Ragnar,
precisely because
I feared to leave
Kattegat undefended.
Kattegat won't go undefended.
Hvitserk can look after it.
What?
I saw Hvitserk
when I was in town.
Well, frankly, brother,
he is not fit to be
left in charge of the defenses
of Kattegat.
What do you mean?
You know what I mean.
Hvitserk is a sick man,
and he's a drunk.
[Bjorn] Yes.
[sighs] I can't deny it.
Which means there's
only one thing.
I know you and Torvi
are very anxious to embark
on your great journey.
I myself remember
very well the great
sense of satisfaction,
the great sense
of expectation, the great
feeling of desire to be free.
To be Viking.
But I would ask you
to delay your journey.
Delay your journey
only for a little while,
while I deal with King Olaf.
Look after Kattegat.
Look after Hvitserk.
And then go,
with my blessing.
[sighs]
[grunting in agreement]
We agree.
Thank you.
[Dir] What are you
waiting for?
Tell me her name.
[Dir chuckles]
You see?
He doesn't know her name.
He's bluffing after all!
[scoffs] I knew it.
You don't know her name.
[Oleg] Anna.
Her name is Anna.
You were married at
the Church of
St. Magnus Martyr
here in Novgorod.
I believe this is
the lady in question.
[laughing]
Am I right?
This is your new bride,
Anna. [laughs]
Now, my dearest brother,
you will give
the three of us
free passage out of here
or my promise
will come true.
Order the warriors
to stand down.
Prince Oleg and his party
should be untroubled
when they leave,
if they agree
not to harm my wife.
I don't need
to harm your wife.
Anna, come. Come!
[Oleg sighs]
[Oleg]
We meet so rarely, Dir.
It's unfortunate
that it has to be
in such circumstances.
But the next time,
will be different.
You have the boy.
You don't need to
see me again.
But we are family.
Family is important!
[Oleg] Dir!
We should stay in touch.
Perhaps.
Just don't invite me
for dinner.
You forgot to
say goodbye
to the cripple!
[door closes]
[woman] Sister, come
see the stitch work.
You see here?
I have made up my mind.
I have decided to answer
King Harald's cry for help.
I think you're crazy.
I'm sure that doesn't
matter to you.
[drizzling]
[indistinct chatter]
[chickens clucking]
King Bjorn.
I wanted to catch you
before you left.
You told Ubbe
and the others that Floki
just abandoned
the Iceland settlement.
Yes. He was unhappy
with many things.
And simply disappeared.
And you searched for him?
You never found a body?
[Bjorn] Huh.
What do you suppose
happened to him?
I don't know.
How should I know?
I have a feeling you know
a lot more than you admit.
So, here's what I suggest.
I am raising an army.
Join me.
Forget about your
settlement in Iceland
for a while
and come with me.
Of course, you are
always free to say no
and go on your own way.
[whispering] But that
would make me
even more suspicious.
No.
I will go with you,
Bjorn Ironside.
-[hits table]
-Good choice.
[music playing]